This section introduces a series of new rituals, among these a number of Higher Rituals which are only available to the members of certain profession/ specialization: they are not secret, but are impossible for others to perform since they require a special insight that none but the dedicated students of a particular area have. Note that a character who belongs to a mystic profession must first acquire the base level ritual the normal way, before being able to choose it again and get it upgraded to the higher level.

Staff Magic Rituals The rituals of staff magic do not work like other rituals; they are bound to the rune staff and activated through an active action at a later time. A rune staff loaded with a ritual cannot be used to perform mystical powers or rituals; if so, the stored ritual is lost.

The Higher Rituals The following professions and corresponding higher rituals are known: WITCHCRAFT: Spiritualists: Necromancy becomes Death Divination Blood Wader: Familiar becomes Beast Companion Green Weaver: Quick Growth becomes Living Fortress WIZARDRY Illusionist: False Terrain becomes Fata Morgana Mentalist: Clairvoyance becomes Spell Tunnel Pyromancer: Flaming Servant becomes Twin Servants SORCERY Demonologist: Summon Daemon becomes Servant Daemon Necromancer: Raise Undead becomes Death Lord THEURGY Inquisitor: Holy Smoke becomes Piercing Gaze Confessor: Exorcism becomes Atonement

Rituals ritual tradition Anoint Theurgy Atonement Confessor only Beast Companion Blood Wader only Bewitching Landscape Wizardry Black Sympathy Witchcraft, Sorcery, Theurgy Blood Bond Witchcraft Blood Storm Staff Mage only Borrow Beast Witchcraft Break Link Wizardry Burdened by Fate Witchcraft Carve Rune Tattoo Symbolist Clairvoyance Wizardry Command Confession Theurgy Death Divination Spiritualist only Death Lord Necromancer only Desecrating Rite Sorcery Enslave Sorcery Exchange Shadow Sorcery Exorcism Theurgy False Shape Wizardry False Terrain Wizardry Familiar Witchcraft Faraway Writing Symbolism Fata Morgana Illusionist only Flaming Servant Wizardry Flesh Craft Sorcery Fortune-telling Witchcraft Heretic’s Trail Theurgy Holy Smoke Theurgy Illusion Wizardry Judging Bonds Theurgy Life Extension Wizardry Living Fortress Green Weavers only ritual tradition Magic Circle Wizardry Nature’s Lullaby Witchcraft Necromancy Witchcraft Oracle Theurgy Patron Saint Theurgy Phylactery Sorcery Piercing Gaze Inquisitor only Possess Sorcery Purging Fire Theurgy Quake Staff Mage only Quick Growth Witchcraft Raise Undead Sorcery Restore Troll Singing Retrieve Troll Singing Rune Guardian Symbolism Sanctifying Rite Theurgy Sanctum Wizardry Sealing/Opening Rite Troll Singing Servant Daemon Demonologist only Seven-league Stride Wizardry Soul Stone Wizardry Soul Trap Sorcery Spell Trap Symbolism Spell Tunnel Mentalist only Summon Daemon Demonologist only Summoning Witchcraft Tale of Ashes Wizardry Telepathic Interrogation Wizardry Torment Witchcraft Traceless Witchcraft Turn Weather Witchcraft Twin Servants Pyromancer only Witch Circle Witchcraft

# Anoint
Tradition: Theurgy The mystic anoints him- or herself with holy oils before a battle, thereby gaining the following: +10 temporary Toughness, +1d4 in protection in addition to any Armor worn, and +1d4 damage on all attacks. If the mystic is damaged, he or she first loses the temporary Toughness, before his or her own Toughness is affected. The downside is that the mystic cannot be healed and that all death tests automatically fail during the scene. The effect lasts for the duration of a scene.
# Atonement
Tradition: Only available to Confessors The higher level of the ritual Exorcism makes the theurg able to lighten the spiritual burdens of a non-possessed person; this is done by the sinner accepting to perform a task for the Confessor. The task must be time-consuming and expensive or dangerous, usually some good deed for the Sun Church or for Prios in general. Once the task is accomplished, the sinner’s permanent corruption is reduced by 1d4. The ritual costs one point of Experience to perform, paid by the confessor or the sinner (the mystic decides).
# Beast Companion
Tradition: Only available to Blood Waders The higher level of the ritual Familiar binds the beast to the mystic’s body and soul; if the familiar dies it is resurrected at dawn the following morning. The mystic suffers damage when the familiar dies, as before. Should the beast companion become thoroughly corrupt – through the ritual Blood Bond or in some other way – the link between the mystic and the beast is forever broken.
# Bewitching Landscape
Tradition: Wizardry The mystic can weave a grand illusion over a location, making all who enter the area confused, lost and at risk of starving to death if they cannot break the spell. The mystic enthralls every creature in the area with a passed \[Resolute←Cunning\] test; the victims gain a second chance to break the spell if one of their companions passes the test and then rolls a successful Persuasive test. The effect can temporarily be dispelled with Anathema; otherwise it can only be permanently broken by the mystic who wove the illusion.
# Black Sympathy
Tradition: Witchcraft, Sorcery, Theurgy With a passed Resolute test, the mystic can inflict pain on an enemy from a distance, by damaging a doll or driving nails into a trace left by the target. The ritual also requires a mystical link to the victim – some hair strands, a puddle of blood or an item that the target holds dear. The victim does not suffer any damage but experiences acute pains and cannot heal by any means during the days of torment. It takes the tormentor one hour to perform the ritual, but no success test is needed after the first. Black Sympathy can be aborted with the ritual Break Link. After that, the Black Sympathy cannot be resumed using the same mystical link, nor before thirty days have passed, even if a new link is available.
# Blood Storm
Tradition: Only available to Staff Mages The staff mage binds a storm of blood in the rune staff, to be unleashed with a thrust into the ground. The storm rages over the area, with the mystic standing in its calm eye. The mystic and allies standing nearby are unaffected, as are any enemies within melee range. All further out are hit by the full effect of the Blood Storm. Those caught in the storm are blinded. Other than moving blindly, they must pass a Vigilant test each turn to be able to perform any actions. Even if they pass that test, they have a second chance to fail on all success tests. The Blood Storm also has a drowning effect; it actively aims for the mouth and nose, and penetrates into the lungs, dealing 1d4 damage each turn, ignoring Armor. The only way to stop this is to leave the area, enter into close combat, flee to some place outside, or take refuge within a windowless structure. The Blood Storm lasts until the mystic fails a Resolute test or loses concentration from being damaged, \[Resolute –Damage\].
# Burdened by Fate
Tradition: Witchcraft With a passed Resolute test, the mystic binds a creature to a mission. The ritual requires a mystical link to the target – some hair strands, a puddle of blood or an item that the target holds dear. If successful, the target immediately knows what it must do but not who has actually bound him or her to the mission or task. The effect of the ritual is that the creature has a second chance to pass one test per scene while trying to complete the mission. On the other hand, he or she has a second chance to fail all tests during scenes which are not directly related to the mission. Burdened by Fate can be dispelled by the ritual Break Link.
# Carve Rune Tattoo
Tradition: Symbolism The mystic carves power runes into the skin of a creature, giving the target the ability Rune Tattoo. The tattoo must then be paid for by “offering” 10 Experience or permanent corruption; it is possible to combine these, and pay part of the cost in Experience and the rest in corruption. The target can pay in full or the symbolist can contribute with the whole or a part of the cost.
# Death Divination
Tradition: Only available to Spiritualists At the higher level of the ritual Necromancy, the mystic has a second chance to pass all tests to get answers from the spirits of the dead.
# Death Lord
Tradition: Only available to Necromancers The higher level of the ritual Raise Undead lets the necromancer summon an undead creature of greater power, a Death Lord; a blackened skeleton in soot-covered full plate armor, that performs the mystic’s bidding with eyes that burn from behind the visor. Death Lords are smart and take their own initiative when solving problems; they often command hordes of lesser undead or act as the bodyguards of their makers. The Death Lord is handled like a second character, and gains Experience and is developed just like a player character.

death lord Race Undead Resistance Ordinary Traits Gravely Cold (I), Undead (I) Accurate 13 (−3), Cunning 10 (0), Discreet 7 (+3), Persuasive 5 (+5), Quick 11 (−1), Resolute 9 (+1), Strong 15 (−5), Vigilant 10 (0) Abilities Iron Fist (novice), Man-at-arms (novice), Two-handed Force (novice) Weapons Heavy Weapon 1D12 Armor Full Plate 1D10 Defense 7 Toughness 15 Pain Threshold – Equipment None Shadow Same as the master Tactics: Walks straight towards the target or stands at attention by its master.
# False Shape
Tradition: Wizardry The mystic weaves an illusory image around itself or an ally, who then assumes a different physical appearance. This cannot be the appearance of a specific individual, only of a typical version of the member of a race. The mystic can decide on form and features typical to the race, in terms of gender, hair color, voice, cloths and so on but the target keeps its stats, abilities and shadow. Its actual size is not affected, only the size of the illusory appearance. The illusion cannot be revealed without using other powers or rituals. The only exception is if the target tries to do something he or she normally cannot do, but that the assumed shape could do; then the illusion crumbles. Other than that, the False Shape fades away after about a week.
# Faraway Writing
Tradition: Symbolism From a distance the mystic can write signs and symbols in a well-known location. The signs appear on a flat surface, like a wall, a floor or a table. They appear when the mystic performs the ritual, and spell out a short message or even a mystical power from the tradition of Symbolism. The mystic can choose to let the writing be visible to all or become visible when a specific individual views the surface. In the latter case, the text appears and/or the power is activated only when that person sees it.
# Fata Morgana
Tradition: Only available to Illusionist The higher level of the ritual False Terrain gives the Illusionist such power over the lie that it touches the truth; that which is created with Fata Morgana actually exists, at least during the moon cycle that the illusion persists. The mystic can place a type of terrain over another or decide to raise a smaller building, such as a croft or a stone fort (see Damage on Buildings, page 106), on a select location. The creation cannot be seen-through but it can be destroyed; if the rules for Damage on Buildings are used, the Fata Morgana has half the Toughness of a corresponding building. After one month, the illusion fades away over the course of a night. Those who were inside during the night end up on the ground and nothing of the lie remains. Performing the ritual costs one Experience point.
# Flesh Craft
Tradition: Sorcery The mystic temporarily transforms his or her hands to flesh crafting and bone sculpting claw-like instruments, put to work on a more or less willing victim. The work transforms the victim into a grotesque mockery of its former self, possessing one or more monstrous traits at level I from the following list: Acidic Blood, Acidic Attack, Armored, Corrupting Attack, Natural Weapon, Poisonous, Poison Spit, Regeneration, Robust, Wings. Later, the victim may develop the traits granted by the ritual with Experience, as if they were normal abilities. A voluntary victim gains 1d4 permanent corruption per trait, but is only affected by whatever amount transcends its current value in permanent corruption. An involuntary victim gains 1d4 permanent corruption per trait, which is added to the corruption it already has. Since the risk of the victim becoming blight born is high, the careful sorcerer always starts off by binding the victim with the ritual Enslave. With that precaution taken, the newborn abomination will obey its creator after the fall into darkness. Example: The sorceress Agathara uses Flesh Craft on one of her servants, who voluntarily submits to be- coming “exalted”. She does not know the ritual Enslave, but chains her victim to the wall, just to be on the safe side. The underling has Resolute 12 and permanent corruption 4 when the ritual begins. Agathara opts to give him three monstrous traits, at a total of \[3d4–4\] in permanent corruption. Agathara rolls 7 on 3d4, giving him 3 more points in permanent corruption, 7 in total. This exceeds his corruption threshold, immediately resulting in an additional 1D4 in permanent corruption. The roll is 3, hence the victim’s permanent corruption is 10. Agathara’s loyal follower is transformed into an exalted version of himself with three monstrous traits at novice level, without becoming thoroughly corrupt. If Agathara had tried to do the same thing to an involuntary victim, the mathematics of corruption would have been grimmer: first, the victim would have suffered 7 in permanent corruption, in addition to the 4 it had, 11 in total – and then suffered 3 more when exceeding the corruption threshold, for a total of 14. Sure, the victim would have received three monstrous traits, but would also have turned into a howling blight beast, out of control. Were it not for the chains, Agathara would most likely have become the newborn’s first meal.
# Life Extension
Tradition: Wizardry The mystic can postpone his or her aging for a year. The ritual requires one dose of Elixir of Life per use and costs either one Experience or a point in permanent corruption.
# Living Fortress
Tradition: Only available to Green Weavers The higher level of the ritual Quick Growth lets the mystic create a fortress of living trees and thorny bushes. The fort counts as a Wooden Fort (see Damage on Buildings, page 106) and defends against anyone trying to pass its living walls – both when entering and exiting. Those trying to pass must succeed with three \[Quick←Resolute\] tests or suffer 1d12 damage (ignoring armor) per failure from being impaled by thorns or beaten by heavy branches. The mystic who created the fort can let anyone in or out, and may also teach his or her allies secret words which will let them pass unhindered through the watchful greenery. The fortress lives a season (three months), then the ritual must be performed again or it will start to wither away. Performing the ritual costs one Experience point.
# Phylactery
Tradition: Sorcery The mystic binds his or her corrupt soul to a vessel – usually a figurine – and is physically resurrected in its vicinity within 1d12 days after having died. Creating a Phylactery costs either one Experience or a point in permanent corruption. Every time the Phylactery is used to resurrect the mystic, he or she suffers 1d6 permanent corruption. Thoroughly corrupt creatures cannot have a Phylactery, since they technically no longer have a soul.
# Piercing Gaze
Tradition: Only available to Inquisitors The higher level of the ritual Holy Smoke allows the theurg a second chance to pass all tests when using Holy Smoke. In addition, with a passed Cunning test, the Piercing Gaze sees through the ritual Exchange Shadow, revealing the actual shadow hidden by the false one.
# Quake
Tradition: Only available to Staff Mages It is said that the earth trembles when a staff mage grows furious – likely a rumor brought about by this ritual. The mage draws on the wrath of the bedrock and keeps it stored in his or her rune staff. When needed, the mage can slam the staff into the ground and a force wave shoots out, like waves on water. The Quake can be aimed at a physical structure and then crush doors, windows and bridges; the mystic can strike the targeted structure with the staff, or throw the staff using the power Staff Projectile. No matter if the Quake is directed into the ground or towards an object, the mage suffers 1d6 temporary corruption upon activation Into the ground: The mage strikes the ground and sets off shock waves that topple all creatures nearby with a passed \[Resolute←Quick\] test – one roll per creature, ally or enemy. The mystic and adjacent allies are excluded from the effect, just like any enemies within melee range. Those who fall suffer 1d4 damage, ignoring armor. Towards an object: The Quake is powerful enough to crush bridges, walls and doors. The damage dealt is rolled as a usual hit with the staff, but the quality Razing is added thanks to the ritual; the staff damages structures as if it is a battering ram. See the rule Damage on Buildings, page 106, for more information. Doors turn to splinters while floors and bridges crumble to dust. If the mystic crushes a floor, he or she remains standing on the edge of the rupture, but before him or her a hole big enough to require two movement actions to get around opens up. Naturally, if it instead is a bridge that is crushed, anyone wanting to pass must climb or swim to the other side.
# Raise Undead
Tradition: Sorcery The mystic has the ability to grant permanent (un)life to a newly dead creature that perished no more than seven days earlier. For the undead to fall under the mystic’s control after the ritual’s completion, the mystic must successfully roll a test against \[Resolute←Resolute\]. Should the test fail, the undead awakens with its own will intact and is then free to decide for itself whether or not to follow the mystic. If the test is successful, the creature must obey the mystic as if bound by a slave rune, and can only be freed by the death of its master. The creature keeps all stats and abilities it had in life and is also gifted with the monstrous trait Undead at level I. It does not age but will not go on forever, since its body is in a constant state of slow decomposition. The creature must make a test against Strong each year – if the test fails the creature’s value in Strong is reduced by one point. When the Strong value reaches 0, the body finally falls apart and the creature meets its final death.
# Restore
Tradition: Troll Singing The mystic can restore a damaged item by singing – a broken sword is mended, a shattered vase is reassembled and a corroded lock regains its functionality. The restored item recovers all its functions and qualities. The mystic cannot create anything new by using the ritual.
# Retrieve
Tradition: Troll Singing The mystic can sing a tune that reveals the path to a lost or displaced object. This requires that the mystic, or someone who is in the company of the mystic, knows the object so well that he or she can describe it in detail. If the object in question has been purposefully hidden, the mystic must pass a \[Resolute←Discreet\] test to learn its whereabouts.
# Rune Guardian
Tradition: Symbolism The mystic creates a personal guard from a statue of stone or wood, carved with life-giving and loyalty building runes. The creator of the guardian can instill some of its own experience into the statue, to make the being stronger upon creation. The Rune Guardian is handled like a second character of the player; it gains Experience and develops over time. The guardian does not sleep and has a simple personality, revolving around duty and obedience. If the guardian dies all acquired Experience is lost and the mystic must start over with a new guardian.

rune guardian Race Mystic Being Resistance Challenging Traits Armored (II), Natural Weapon (II), Robust (III) Accurate 5 (+5), Cunning 10 (0), Discreet 7 (+3), Persuasive 9 (+1), Quick 10 (0), Resolute 11 (−1), Strong 15 (−5), Vigilant 13 (−3) Abilities Iron Fist (adept) Weapons Hammer Fists 1D8 (+1D8 for Robust, +1D4 for Iron Fist) Armor Stone or wood 1D6 (+1D8 for Robust) Defense 6 Toughness 15 Pain Threshold 8 Equipment None Shadow Same as the master Tactics: Obeys its master’s commands, seeking the best means to comply.
# Sealing/Opening Rite
Tradition: Troll Singing The mystic can sing power words over a door, a lock or a gate to either seal it with mystical energies or open it, whether it is locked by a conventional lock or by mystical energies. Sealing a door requires no test, but to open it the mystic must pass a test against \[Resolute←Difficulty\], where the difficulty is decided by the difficulty of the lock mechanism or the Resolute of the mystic who sealed it. Locks that normally cannot be picked, which open to a password or similar, are counted as having Difficulty −8.
# Servant Daemon
Tradition: Only available to Demonologists The higher level of the ritual Summon Daemon binds a servant daemon to the demonologist. The servant is weak at first but can develop over time, and it is handled by the player like a second character. Also, the Servant Daemon can be the subject of the ritual Blood Bond.

servant daemon Race Abomination Resistance Ordinary Traits Armored (I), Natural Weapon (I) Accurate 13 (−3), Cunning 10 (0), Discreet 11 (−1), Persuasive 5 (+5), Quick 15 (−5), Resolute 9 (+1), Strong 7 (+3), Vigilant 10 (0) Abilities None Weapons Sharp fangs 1D6 (short) Armor Daemon skin 1D4 Defense 15 Toughness 10 Pain Threshold 3 Equipment None Shadow Same as the master Tactics: Reluctantly obeys its master’s commands.
# Soul Trap
Tradition: Sorcery With a passed Resolute test, the mystic binds the soul of a newly dead creature to a prepared vessel, usually a pendant with a jewel. The target must have died less than a minute prior to the start of the ritual, and the mystic must be at the scene of death or have access to the corpse. The purpose of capturing the soul is often to stop others from contacting it with the ritual Necromancy. The Soul Trap is easily destroyed by smashing the vessel, but the rituals Break Link and Exorcism may also be used if one wants to spare the jewel.
# Spell Trap
Tradition: Symbolism The mystic binds a power to a certain location or to an object. Note that the powers of Symbolism do not have to be bound this way; this is covered by the Adept level of Symbolism. Spell Trap is instead used for powers not included in that tradition. All Spell Traps need to be given a trigger criterion when created. Such a criterion can, for instance, be that a living creature enters the room, that someone steps on the Spell Trap or that a weapon is drawn in the vicinity. The mystic can exclude him- or herself from being able to trigger the trap, but the allies of the mystic are not excluded – if they meet the criterion, the power is activated. The mystic who makes the Spell Trap does not have to know the power which is to be trapped, but in that case he or she needs the assistance of a mystic who does or a scroll that describes the power. The Spell Trap can be dispelled with Anathema or the ritual Break Link; if not, it remains dormant for years – decades, sometimes centuries – before its energies dissipate.
# Spell Tunnel
Tradition: Only available to Mentalists The higher level of the ritual Clairvoyance makes it possible for the mentalist to open a mystic tunnel to the location observed. By way of this tunnel, all mystical powers that do not require touching the target can be used. Also the allies of the mentalist can use the tunnel to affect the observed location with mystical powers. However, the tunnel goes both ways, so people on the far side may very well retaliate. Ranged weapons cannot fire projectiles through the tunnel; only powers and traits that work as powers are allowed. The Spell Tunnel is active during a scene but can be closed earlier with Anathema.
# Summon Daemon
(Vindictive, Knowledgeable, or Guardian)
Tradition: Only available to Demonologists Outside the world known to Ambrians and barbarians, winds gust over a dead, mist-covered landscape. Abominations roam the mists, hunting for life to consume. Demonologists know how to summon daemons to the world of the living, and can force them into service. These daemons come in three different forms and the summoning of each requires the use of a separate ritual, but since the procedures share many characteristics they are described together. Irrespective of the type of daemon to be sum- moned, the procedure is the same: the creature must appear within a symbol prepared on the ground, and wise demonologists make sure to learn, and use, the ritual Magic Circle in order to protect themselves if something goes wrong during the summoning. Summoning a daemon requires no test to be rolled once the special symbol has been created; however, in order to subdue the daemon and make it obey the demonologist, a test against \[Resolute←Resolute\] must be passed. A blood sacrifice in the form of a living Cultural Being gives the mystic a second chance to pass the test, and if the victim has no permanent corruption the mystic also gains a +1 bonus on the test. If the test is successful, the daemon does the mystic a service; if the test fails, the daemon is free to do whatever it wishes until the same time next day. The creature cannot stay longer than that unless it is bound to the service of the demonologist. Whether or not the daemon is bound to the mystic, it can never enter magic circles, witch circles or a site protected by Sanctum. The demonologist may only bind one daemon at a time; if more are summoned, the one already bound is freed and will remain in the world for twenty-four hours before returning to its place of origin. However, if the mystic knows more than one of the summoning rituals, he or she can have one daemon of each type in service. The three rituals let the mystic summon a specific type of daemon – either a Vindictive, a Knowledgeable or a Guardian daemon. The ritual costs one point in Experience to perform, whether the test to control the daemon is a success or a failure. Vindictive Daemon: The abomination is one of the winged creatures that soar through the mists of the Yonderworld. If ordered by the mystic, the Vindictive Daemon can track down and attack a known and named creature with the intention of killing it. The mystic needs a link to the target, for example its hair, blood or an item he or she holds dear. The daemon follows the astral link to the victim; if the distance can be counted in day’s marches, the daemon flies at death march pace and must test to see if something cata- strophic takes place – maybe it is tracked down by witch hunters, or killed by some other monstrosity along the way. Knowledgeable Daemon: The abomination is one of the manipulative creatures lurking in the mists of the Yonderworld, always looking for lifeforms to tame and consume. A Knowledgeable Daemon answers one question from the mystic; further \[Resolute←Resolute\] tests provide more answers. The daemon can answer yes or no on a direct question (like the ritual Fortune Telling) or answer an open question (like the rit- ual Oracle). Additional questions do not increase the risk of the daemon breaking free – if a test fails, the daemon will simply refuse to answer more questions – and it takes one hour to get each answer. A blood sacrifice also helps when rolling for additional questions. Guardian Daemon: The abomination is summoned from among the howling monstrosities that rage through the Yonderworld hunting for targets for their hate and frustration.

The Guardian Daemon guards a place until it is killed or set free by the demonologist. The daemon will obey instructions regarding who is allowed entry or passage; the demonologist may change the definition regarding who or what may enter or pass, but the pact does not allow him or her to change the location.

Daemon Summoning The three types of daemons are summoned by different rituals; when the mystic acquires the ritual, the type must be specified.

vindictive daemon Manner Sniffing and prying Race Abomination Resistance Challenging Traits Armored (II), Natural Weapon (III), Wings (III) Accurate 15 (−5), Cunning 10 (0), Discreet 13 (−3), Persuasive 5 (+5), Quick 11 (−1), Resolute 7 (+3), Strong 9 (+1), Vigilant 10 (0) Abilities None Weapons Claws 5 (long) Armor Daemon skin 3 Defense −1 Toughness 10 Pain Threshold 5 Equipment None Shadow Like a black, oily cloud dancing in hard winds (thoroughly corrupt) Tactics: The daemon will try to wait until the victim is in a location that suits the daemon, preferably a huge open area or a grand hall. It can wait in the shadows or on the beams under the roof to gain Advantage. Then it attacks.

knowledgeaBle daemon Manner Fawning and wheezing Race Abomination Resistance Challenging Traits Alternative Damage (III) Accurate 7 (+3), Cunning 10 (0), Discreet 9 (+1), Persuasive 11 (−1), Quick 13 (−3), Resolute 15 (−5), Strong 5 (+5), Vigilant 10 (0) Abilities Bend Will (master), Ritualist (adept: Enslave, Oracle, Fortune-telling) Weapons Life-consuming kiss 5, ignores Armor, damages Resolute Armor None Defense −3 Toughness 10 Pain Threshold 3 Equipment None Shadow Calm blackness, like a pool of liquid bitumen (thoroughly corrupt) Tactics: The daemon will keep its distance and try to bend the will of its victim; when the target no longer manages to resist the daemon consumes its soul. The daemon's greatest wish is to bend the will of the summoning mystic and then Enslave him or her– making it possible for the daemon to remain free in the world, until the mystic dies or is saved from the enslavement.

guardian daemon Manner Snorting and clawing the ground Race Abomination Resistance Challenging Traits Natural Weapon (III), Robust (II) Accurate 5 (+5), Cunning 10 (0), Discreet 9 (+1), Persuasive 7 (+3), Quick 13 (−3), Resolute 10 (0), Strong 15 (−5), Vigilant 11 (−1) Abilities Iron Fist (adept), Polearm Mastery (adept) Weapons Claws 11 (long) Armor Daemon skin 3 Defense 0 Toughness 15 Pain Threshold 8 Equipment None Shadow Night-black as bubbling and boiling tar (thoroughly corrupt) Tactics: The daemon will stay within its area of protection and block passage by making full use of its long claws. If the enemy resorts to using ranged attacks, the daemon will enter into melee as soon as possible.
# Torment
Tradition: Witchcraft, Sorcery The mystic places a tormenting curse on the target. This requires a mystical link to the target. The effect of the ritual can vary, but an often employed version makes the victim slowly wither – its Toughness is reduced by one point each week and it cannot heal until the curse is lifted. Other known effects of the ritual are the sum- moning of warts or a nasty stench that surrounds the victim, making the target tired during the day and alert at night – then often limited to a duration of a month, just to teach the target a lesson. The torment effect can be aborted by the ritual Break Link.
# Traceless
Tradition: Witchcraft All physical traces of the mystic and his or her allies disappear. For instance, footsteps in mud subside, broken branches and grass stalks heal and spider webs are mystically restored. The ritual works just as well in civilization; dust settles on mosaic floors and piles of paper are arranged as they were before the mystic or some ally browsed them. The duration is 24 hours, either forward or back from the casting of the ritual; traces from the previous day’s activities can be obliterated, or the effect can affect all activities performed during the day after the ritual is performed. In any case, the effect of the ritual is that neither the mystic nor his or her allies can be traced by any physical means, including smell. Mystical tracking methods are not affected.
# Twin Servants
Tradition: Only available to Pyromancers The advanced version of the ritual Flaming Servant allows the Pyromancer to have two f laming servants. These are handled like two separate, additional characters by the player, and they gain Experience from adventuring just like all flaming servants do.