Burdens are free abilities which grant a cost reduction to another ability. Whenever you take a burden, the next ability you take costs 5 less XP.
## Addiction
The character has developed an addiction and must have a dose of their drug each day, or suffer from withdrawal symptoms. The drug (wine, dream snuff, daft root or similar) costs one shilling per dose. An alchemist can create the drug for himself or a friend for half that price. Withdrawal symptoms give a –1 modification to all tests and grow worse day-by-day, up to –5. Each day without the drug, the character must also pass a \[Resolve –the abstinence modification\] test. If it fails, they will abandon all other projects and start hunting for the daily dose.
## Arch Enemy
The character has, by actions or name, made an arch enemy. This individual has devoted their existence to destroying – and in the end, taking – the character's life. At least once during each adventure, the influence of the arch enemy will show. They primarily act through others; hiring thugs or spreading lies in the hope that others will make life difficult for the character. Exactly who this arch enemy is, why they hate the character and what resources are at hand, is for the player and Game Master to decide. However, it cannot be someone who is easily avoided or stopped from acting out their hatred.
## Bestial
The player character has a bestial appearance, in the form of one (or a few) conspicuous traits – jakaar eyes, aboar tusks, lindworm scales on arms and neck, or something else arousing fear and disgust. Concealing the traits requires the character to pass a \[Subtlety←Vigilance\] test. If the test is failed, the character will have a second chance at failing all Charisma tests concerning pleas for help or protection. However, the bestial exterior grants a second chance to pass all Charisma tests meant to threaten or intimidate. As soon as they can, those subjected to the character's intimidation – whether or not it is successful – will report them to the Town Watch (or similar authorities) as a suspected abomination.
## Bloodthirst
The character has a thirst for blood, easily awoken and hard to quench. The thirst appears if they take damage and means that the character will not spare any enemies – not even if they surrender. Trying to spare an enemy requires an almost overpowering effort; it requires the character to sacrifice an Experience point and then pass a Vigilance test.
## Code of Honor
The character has adopted a very strict code of honor, applicable in all situations but especially burdensome in combat. The effect of the code is that the player character never runs from a fight which has begun. Sure, sometimes combat can be avoided, but when the fight is on, all enemies must fall!
## Dark Secret
The character has some kind of dark secret, which threatens to destroy their reputation and life if revealed. Maybe the character has been a member of a corrupted cult, killed someone, or protected a murderer and never gotten caught. Should the dark secret become publicly known, the character gets one of the burdens Pariah or Wanted instead, depending on the secret. Once per adventure there is a risk for exposure; the character must roll a Subtlety test during each adventure, a test with a second chance to succeed. If failed, someone discovers a clue which can lead to the truth. Maybe some kind of physical evidence surfaces (a letter, for instance)? Is it a witness claiming to have seen something or is the character talking in his sleep? Whether the suspicious person is a non-player character or a character, the one with the dark secret must lay their curiosity to rest or suffer the consequences. Note that a non-player character may want to extort, rather than expose, the character.
## Elderly
The character is past their prime and has both good and bad days. If the first success test of the day is a success, it is a good day and everything seems to be alright; if the first test of the day is a failure, it is a bad day – the gout sets in, all joints are aching or the character is out of breath even when seated. Whatever the cause, the character has –1 on all tests for the day.
## Epileptic
The character is afflicted by a sensitive mind, meaning that they can be exposed to violent cramps throughout the body when excited or stressed. If rolling a 20 on a success test the cramping starts and the character is down and out for 1d6 turns. Afterward, they are exhausted and suffers –1 on all success tests until the end of the scene.
## Impulsive
The character acts before thinking. This means that as soon as the player opens their mouth and says that the character does something, it does – and the player cannot have second thoughts. The only way to restrain the character is to sacrifice an Experience point or accept one (1) permanent corruption.
## Nightmares
The character is haunted by nightmares each and every night, possibly because of something they have experienced, or for more abstruse reasons, such as an ominous omen or the consequence of a family curse. Each night, the character must pass a Resolve test in order to heal naturally, or no healing will occur that day. Other forms of healing are not affected.
## Pariah
The character belongs to a race which is ill-reputed among the ruling majority and is more or less openly discriminated against. Lone individuals in society might be less inclined to prejudice, but the character's social interactions are generally hampered. Persecuted groups tend to stand together against the world and provide each other with aid and support. When taking on a social challenge, the player has to roll twice and pick the worst result to decide the outcome of the test. On the other hand, the character is awarded a second chance to succeed while interacting with members of their own race, in which case it only has to roll the dice when it strives to accomplish something which is questionable or next to impossible to achieve. Additionally, the character starts with only five shillings in their purse.
## Mystical Mark
The character has a mystical mark somewhere on their body, maybe a birth mark or a scar gained later in life. Whatever the origin, the character is at risk of being mistaken for having a blight-mark. In situations when it is relevant, the character must pass a test against \[Subtlety←Vigilance\] or attract the attention of a pitch-fork wielding mob or a more or less dangerous witchhunter.
## Protégé
The character has to put up with and protect a protégé. The protégé can be a beloved child, an elderly but respected mentor, a soulmate or just an annoying relative whose welfare is connected to a future inheritance for the character. Either way, this person is played by the Game Master and tends to get into trouble. The protégé has no stats besides those associated with weak resistance, and gains no Experience from adventuring – they are as much a burden over time, as at the start. If the protégé dies or goes missing, the character is afflicted by other problems; sorrow and remorse, mirrored in a suitable burden. If the character protected the person from love, burdens like Addiction or Nightmares can be appropriate. And if the protection was related to personal gains, maybe Wanted or Arch Enemy is better – the relatives of the protégé do not easily forget the characters betrayal.
## Sickly
The character suffers from a chronic disease, making them weak. Normally, this does not show, but when damaged or traumatized the character is at great risk of dying – all death tests are made with two dice and the worst, most unfavorable outcome stands.
## Slow
The creature or person moves at an unusually slow speed. In situations where precision counts, the movement is 7 meters per turn. In connection to the rule on Flight & Hunt (page 102), the trait gives a –3 Agility penalty.
## Wanted
The character is wanted for a serious crime, either justly or falsely accused. The effect is that they risk getting recognized and hunted. Once per adventure, the character must pass a Subtlety test to avoid being identified.