Each suit of armor provides a certain amount of protection, indicated by a specific die. Some armor also has qualities that affect how the armor works mechanically. Just like weapons, different cultures have developed a number of diverse kinds of armor, all with their respective advantages and disadvantages.

armor ProteCtion quaLity CoSt Light 1D4 Impeding (−2) 2 thaler Blessed Robe Flexible 10 thaler Order Cloak Flexible 10 thaler Witch Gown Flexible 10 thaler Wolf Skin Cumbersome 1 thaler Woven Silk Flexible 10 thaler Medium 1D6 Impeding (−3) 5 thaler Crow Armor Cumbersome 2 thaler Lacquered Silk Cuirass Flexible 25 thaler Heavy 1D8 Impeding (−4) 10 thaler Full Plate Flexible 50 thaler

Light Armor
Armor: 1D4 Qualities: Impeding (−2). Many kinds of light armor have the Flexible quality, wolf skin armor has the Cumbersome quality. Light armor is easy to come by and does not limit the wearer's capabilities substantially in acrobatic situations or when performing stealthy maneuvers. Yet it has a negative effect when using mystical powers. Hardened, ring and studded leather are all examples of light armor. Blessed Robe: The priest robes of the theurgs are blessed and protected by benevolent forces so that the Church's finest can travel safely throughout the kingdom, and beyond. Order Cloak: Most novice mages of Ordo Magica are given a protective cloak in time for their first long journey. These cloaks are embroidered with warding runes, which increases the chance of the novice surviving to complete its appointed task. Witch Gown: Witches bind protective spirits in carved pieces of bone and the skulls of fallen enemies, and attach them to their clothing for effective protection. Wolf Skin: For poor barbarian scouts the cheap, cumbersome wolf skin armor is a common alternative; skin that has been tanned in the most simple way and sewn together into some kind of passable protection. Woven Silk: Woven silk is the finest light armor available, since the close weave of its threads with- stands stabs and cuts far better than its weight suggests. Woven silk has been used by both barbarians and Ambrians for a long time and some scholars speculate that the technique originally comes from the elves, possibly dating as far back as the days of the Iron Pact.

Medium Armor
Armor: 1D6 Qualities: Impeding (−3). Some have the Flexible quality; Crow Armor has the Cumbersome quality. Medium armor offers better protection than the light versions but at the cost of being more restrictive to the wearer's movements. However, this downside is considered an acceptable trade-off by most melee combatants. Scale- and chainmail are examples of medium armor. Crow Armor: Medium armor is more expensive than light, which is the reason why many warriors have picked, riveted and bound together a so-called “Crow Armor” of their own. It is cheap, but far more difficult to move around in. Lacquered Silk Cuirass: Barbarian warriors that have earned their place in the guard of a wealthy clan chieftain can sometimes be seen wearing a cuirass of lacquered silk, an armor that despite its apparent lightness protects like a breast plate. According to legend, the secret of lacquered silk was given to humankind by the elves, in a time when the Iron Pact was still strong and humans battled the parasitic darkness of Symbaroum.

Heavy Armor
Armor: 1D8 Qualities: Impeding (−4), Ambrian Full Plate has the Flexible quality. Those melee combatants that can afford it usually chose increased protection at the cost of even greater restrictions to their movement. A self-respecting knight wears chainmail enforced by shoulder, knee and elbow plates, while those with the means tend to order themselves a personalized set of full plate armor. Full Plate: Personalized full plate armor is available for those of sufficient means, and offers the best protection available with less restriction than many other kinds of heavy armor.