Weapons
Each weapon deals a certain amount of basic damage to the target's [[Toughness]], indicated by a specific die. Some weapons also have qualities that affect how they are used. Furthermore, some abilities can make it possible to use a weapon in other or more refined ways. In these cases, it is important to read the description of the ability thoroughly, to know exactly what the weapon can do in the hands of an experienced character.

WeaPon damaGe quaLity CoSt Heavy Weapon 1D10 10 thaler Bastard Sword, two-handed Precise 50 thaler Double-axe 1D10+1 Deep Impact 50 thaler Heavy Flail Jointed 50 thaler Long Weapon 1D8 Long 3 thaler Halberd 1D8+1 Deep Impact 15 thaler Pike Precise 15 thaler Quarterstaff 1D6 Blunt 1 shilling Projectile Weapon Crossbow 1D10 8 thaler Arbalest 1D10+1 Deep Impact 40 thaler Bow 1D8 5 thaler Longbow Precise 25 thaler 10 arrows or bolts 1 thaler Single-Handed Weapon 1D8 5 thaler Crow's Beak 1D8+1 Deep Impact 25 thaler Fencing Sword Precise 25 thaler Flail Jointed 25 thaler Shield 1D4 3 thaler Buckler Flexible 15 thaler Steel Shield Balanced 15 thaler Short Weapon 1D6 Short 1 thaler Parrying Dagger Balanced 5 thaler Stiletto 1D6+1 Deep Impact 5 thaler Throwing Weapon 1D6 2 thaler Spear Sling 1D6+1 Deep Impact 10 thaler Unarmed Attack 1D4 Short — Battle Claw 1D4+1 Deep Impact 1 thaler

Heavy Weapons
Damage: 1D10 Qualities: None. The Bastard Sword is Precise, the Double Axe has the Deep Impact quality, the Heavy Flail is Jointed. Heavy weapons are distinguished by the fact that they have to be wielded with two hands in order to be used effectively. They have a superior damage effect in melee combat. Pole axe, warhammer and the mighty great sword are all examples of heavy weapons common in the Davokar region. Bastard Sword: The master smiths of the Pansars forge the finest weapons in Ambria, and the bastard swords of the Queen's Guard are an exquisite testament to that fact, at least when wielded by the right warrior. The weapon is preferably handled with both hands (as a heavy weapon) but can also be used single-handedly with a shield. When wielded with just one hand, the bastard sword loses the Precise quality and instead deals damage like a single-handed weapon. Double-axe: The barbarian double-axe (not to be confused with the more common pole axe with its single-edged axe head) is aptly named after its twin axe heads and is presumed to be a legacy from the fallen Symbaroum. In those days the double-axe was a weapon as well as a symbol of status and standing. Even though the knowledge of metallurgy has dwindled since the fall of Symbaroum these powerful weapons can still be forged, often made for particularly prominent warriors. Ambrians consider the double-axe crude and savage, fit for barbarians and few else, but its shape is well known because of its similarity to the royal rune, Labrys. Heavy Flail: The heavy flail is a Jointed weapon, where a metal ball – often spiked – attached to a two-handed shaft by a chain is swung against the enemy. It is not easy to parry a flail since the metal ball often strikes around the parrying weapon or shield to find its target. The heavy flail comes in a number of shapes, like the traditional wooden two-handed shaft attached to a chain that ends in a spiked metal head. There are also variants with spiked pieces of metal that are linked together, as well as models where two or three chains and metal heads share the same shaft. Regardless of design, they all share the weight of the flail and the fact that they are difficult to block.

Long Weapons
Damage: 1D8 Qualities: Long. The Halberd has Deep Impact, the Pike is Precise, and the Quarterstaff is Blunt Long weapons have the advantage of superior reach and give the user Free Attacks against enemies that are not armed with Long weapons themselves. A Long weapon can be used in one hand, but then loses the Long quality since the user is forced to hold it higher up on the grip to control the weapon. Spear and staff are examples of Long weapons. Halberd: The halberd, known as the pole axe among barbarians, has elements of both the Long and the Heavy weapon since it is combining the point of a spear with the head of an axe. It cannot thrust as quickly as the spear, but its sweeping chop can have a devastating effect. Pike: The slender shaft and fire-tempered steel point of the Ambrian pike slides towards the target with great precision. Quarterstaff: The simpler wooden staff, often made from heavy wood that has been hardened with fire, has the reach of a Long weapon but lacks the effect of steel-tipped weapons.

Projectile Weapons
Damage: Crossbow 1D10, bow 1D8, sling 1D6 Qualities: The Arbalest has the Deep Impact quality and the Longbow is Precise. Projectile weapons are meant to be used over greater distances and need some time to reload. The crossbow is loaded with bolts, the bows fire arrows and slings throw sharpened rocks. A cross- bow requires a Movement Action to be reloaded, while reloading a bow or a sling counts as a Free Action. Bow, crossbow and sling are all examples of projectile weapons. Arbalest: The arbalest is a heavy Ambrian crossbow with a bow of feather steel, which gives its bolts a bit of extra punch. Longbow: The longbow is a reliable and proven weapon in the Ambrian army, and since The Great War it is often carried by farmers who make up the backbone of the kingdom's archer companies.

Shields
Armor: Provides +1 in Defense Qualities: None. Bucklers are Flexible, Steel Shields are Balanced. Shields make it difficult to hit the wielder with melee, as well as ranged, attacks. They are often combined with a single-handed weapon, or with a single-handed weapon and a number of additional throwing weapons. Buckler: The buckler is a small shield commonly carried by elite archers and pikemen, since it is agile enough to be strapped to the arm while still allowing the use of both hands to wield a weapon. The Buckler is too light to be used with the Shield Fighter ability. Steel Shield: The steel shield is as strong as the common wooden shields, but both thinner and more easily maneuvered.

Short Weapons
Damage: 1D6 Qualities: Short. The Parrying Dagger is Balanced and the Stiletto has the Deep Impact quality. Short weapons can be drawn quickly and are easily hidden. Daggers and short swords are examples of Short weapons. Parrying Dagger: The parrying dagger, with its wide and v-shaped cross-guard, has become very popular in Yndaros, and is often wielded together with a fencing sword. Stiletto: The slender and agile stiletto is a dagger whose razor sharp point stabs deeply – the weapon of an assassin.

Single-Handed Weapons
Damage: 1D8 Qualities: None. A Crow's Beak has the Deep Impact quality, a Fencing Sword is Precise, a Flail is Jointed. The category of Single-handed weapons covers all kinds of weapons that can be wielded in one hand. Axe, saber, sword and war hammer are all examples of single-handed weapons. Crow's Beak: A less elegant, but just as effective weapon is the Crow's Beak, also known as a Kandorian War Pick after the city in Alberetor where it was first forged. The Crow's Beak is a club whose metal head is fitted with a spike or a beak of steel, in order to punch through armor more easily. After the escape to Yndaros, the smiths of the Kandorian War Pick settled down in the district of Old Kadizar where they have continued to craft their dreaded weapons. Fencing Sword: In Yndaros, the Ambrian fenc- ing sword is considered to be of the highest fashion, an instrument with superior precision made from strong but flexible steel. It is often combined with the duelist's favorite, the parrying dagger, which gives the lightly armored fighter a stronger defense in combat. Flail: The single-handed cousin of the heavy flail.

Throwing Weapons
Damage: 1D6 Qualities: None. Spear Sling has the Deep Impact quality. Throwing weapons are hurled single-handedly over short distances. They are usually used before melee combat is initiated, and are therefore often combined with a shield. Throwing axe, throwing knife and throwing spear are all examples of this weapon group. Spear Sling: The barbarians of eastern Davokar , and especially the members of clan Karohar, prefer the use of spear slings – a throwing arm with a hook that is attached to the end of a short spear in order to throw it with tremendous force.

Unarmed Attacks
Damage: 1D4 Qualities: Short. The Battle Claw has the Deep Impact quality. Unarmed attacks are usually used as the last resort of cultural beings and are less effective than the natural weapons of beasts and abominations in almost all respects. Yet, with the Natural Warrior ability even an unarmed character can inflict considerable amounts of damage to its enemies. An elbow, a bite, a punch, a head-butt, a kick as well as the use of brass knuckles are examples of Unarmed Attacks. Battle Claw: The clan Karohar in southern Davokar has developed a clawed gauntlet that you wear on your hand and whose long claws simulate those of a mare cat.