Sometimes one side of a melee combat gets an advantage over the other. A character sneaking up on an enemy to attack it from behind has the Advantage. Another situation where you are at an Advantage is when you attack a target lying on the ground or a target that is climbing towards you. To create advantages when fighting on plain and even ground requires the use of Actions, attacks or movements. If your character has the Advantage in a combat situation, it receives a +2 modification to the relevant Attribute when making a Success test, and their attacks deal 1D4 extra damage. The following situations provide advantages:
* Attacking an enemy that is unaware of the pending attack. For this situation to occur, a successful \[[[Subtlety]]←[[Vigilance]]\] test is normally required by the attacker.
* All melee attacks against a flanked enemy counts as providing an Advantage. A target is considered flanked if two enemies stand on opposite sides of it. It usually takes a Movement Action to get around an enemy and flank it. In the same way a character can use a Movement Action to get away from a flanked position – but with the consequence of receiving a Free attack from each enemy.
* All melee attacks against an enemy lying down. Note that ranged attacks do not get any advantage from this.
* All attacks against enemies standing on lower ground than the attacker, such as attacking down from a wall against enemies climbing a ladder. This applies to both melee and ranged attacks.

It can help to have a map of the battlefield in order to get a better overview of the combat situation. Draw the surrounding area on a piece of paper and mark where everybody stands with an “X” or simple markers or tokens. Even objects and terrain – such as trees, boulders and buildings – should be drawn on the map. Then it quickly becomes much more obvious where the combatants stand, who can shoot, who is flanked and so on. A combat map is even more recommended for battles with many combatants, such as in combat situations where the characters face the same number of enemies as themselves.